README.md, before:

![Image - Logo Huzzah](https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah//assets/images/general/cover_readme.png)

# Huzzah | A memory game with cocktails

Huzzah is a memory game that will allow users to engage with the data, take action that will allow 
the users to move between levels and will provide information that will help the users to achieve 
heir goals. The site will contain 4 pages: Home page, Game page, Contact page and Instructions page.

**A live demo of the website [**can be found here**](https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah/)**.

------

# Table of Contents

* [UX](#UX)
  * [Website Goals](#Website-Goals)
  * [User Stories](#User-Stories)
  * [Design Choices](#Design-Choices)
  * [Wireframes](#Wireframes)
* [Features](#Features)
  * [Existing Features](#Existing-Features)
  * [Future Features](#Future-Features)
* [Technologies Used](#Technologies-Used)
  * [Languages](#Languages)
  * [Styling](#Styling)
  * [Framework](#Framework)
  * [Testing tools](#Testing-tools)
* [Testing](#Testing)
  * [Bugs](#Bugs)
* [Deployment](#Deployment)
* [Credits](#Credits)
  * [Media](#Media)
  * [Content](#Content)
  * [Source of codes](#Source-of-codes)
  * [Acknowledgements](#Acknowledgements)
  * [Disclaimer!](#Disclaimer)

------

## UX

### Website Goals

* Provide clear feedback and next steps to the users, so they find it easy to navigate through the game.
* Provide access to all the information related to the game, and links that are easily noticed. 
* Provide the same experience accessing the website from a browser or mobile.
* Make the website look credible and trustworthy.
* Provide the users with an engaging memory game, that would challenge the users memory and would catch their attention
    to want to spend more time on the website and improve their game timing.
* Provide information about the game rules with instructions on how to play the game. 
* Provide a contact form so individuals can get in contact with the team if they have any requests about the game or want 
    to report any issues.

### User Stories

* As a user, I want to see a game that is stimulating, enjoyable, and challenging.
* As a user, I want to be able to chose if I want the game to have any sounds or not. 
* As a user, I want to see a game that has warm colours, intuitive design. 
* As a user, I want to see a website that is easy to navigate.
* As a user, I want to see clear prompts, reactions, or next steps between levels. 
* As a user, I want to have the same experience accessing the website from a browser or mobile.
* As a user, I want to see instructions that would explain how to play the game.
* As a user, I want to see a contact page, so I can contact the owner if I have any questions, requests, or if I want to report
    an error I might encounter.

### Design Choices

* **Fonts chosen**: Open Sans and Source Sans Pro - as I want the text to be easy to read on all devices, provide a consistent 
    content through the game, and the main focus to be the game and not the fonts. I will also use 'Caesar Dressing' for the header title,
    as this font is the same one as the one used on the logo. 

* **Colours chosen**: I will use a combination of 4 colours across the website pages: teal, wheat, dark golden, and dark grey. 
    As I chose the theme of the website and game to be beach and cocktails related, I felt that these colours go well with the 
    theme of the website. 

    ![Colours combination](https://screenshot.click/16_02-cgr09-oithf.png)

    When the user selects the correct cards, or they fail to find the matching cards, there will be symbols showing up, 🅇 and ✅ ,
    which will be red and green. The respective cards border will also show these colours.  

    Colours were also chosen based on the [video game console palettes list from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_video_game_console_palettes#NES).

* **Layout chosen**: intuitive, easy to navigate, with a menu available on the main page, a back button on each page, that would 
    bring the user on the main, front page. Buttons and links will have a hover effect, that will allow the user to know an action 
    was taken when the buttons and links are clicked. The logo will also provide a link to the main page, in case the user would like
    to access the main page easily. 


### Wireframes

As part of the development process I created  wireframes for my website using the [Balsamiq tool](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/desktop/#). 
Some of the details that show on the wireframes were changed during the process of building the website because ... reasons. 
* These changes are:
    * eg1
    * eg2

* This is the [**PDF version with all the wireframes**](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/17jDVXZscPY018-Hd0jZA3--5V9EcGl6N?usp=sharing).
* This is the [**.png mobile version of the wireframes**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lv1h_QryJDawWz8sIOwqZzUiDFIAQz7j/view?usp=sharing).
* This is the [**.png desktop version of the wireframes**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xpHnrqGE-_osz59l_Gr4S-JsJgNrLlp9/view?usp=sharing).
* This is the [**.png tablet version of the wireframes**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1D8uzYeD0F7PvLSppVLPF4wvF_8KIMQ90/view?usp=sharing).
* These wireframes are also stored in the [wireframes directory](https://github.com/anabear/Huzzah/blob/379c2c204cdabe477d40b0100d479ace171701a1/wireframes).

------

## Featuress

### Existing Features

* The game will have a responsive design, focused on mobile-first design as users are expected to play the game on any device available.
* User-friendly display with intuitive, easy to navigate design.
* Engaging, timed level game. 5 Levels available with increasing difficulty. 
* **Notifications** - showing the user how they are doing after each level is achieved or lost. Congratulations/Finish Banner.
* **Timer** - that would stimulate and challenge the user to finish the level within specific time.
* **Audio button** - that will allow the user to control the sound of the game.
* **Start game button** - that would allow the user to choose if they want to first read the instructions before starting the game.
* **Back button** - that would allow the user to easily get back to the main page, before the game starts.
* **Instructions page** - that would provide the game rules and any other information that would be useful for the user. 
* **Contact page form** - functional, easy to fill, form validation to ensure accurate information is entered, form submission confirmation
    that will confirm to the user that their submission was successfully sent. The form submissions are delivered to the website owner's 
    inbox with its contents.

### Future Features

* More sounds available, for different levels.
* Create easy/medium/hard difficulty with the introduction of lives (3 to start), reduced time to complete the level, more types of 
    images to match and a greater amount of cards from the start, more than level 10 on the existing features.
* Allow the user to choose their timer, and level.
* Ability to pause the game and save current level. Restart the game from where the user left off. 
* Automated level switch, and change of background between levels.
* Give the user the option to play different themed memory cards games.
* Allow multi-players and provide a leader board.

------

## Technologies Used

### Languages

* [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML)
  * The project used HTML as this is the essential language of websites.
* [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
  * The project used CSS to provide the styles for the website.
* [Javascript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)
  * The project used Javascript to create relevant responses dependent on users actions.

### Styling

* [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
  * Used for the footer social icons.
* [Google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
  * Used for the ‘Source Sans Pro’ and ‘Open Sans’ fonts used within the website.
* [Contrast-ratio](Contrast-ratio.com) 
  * Used to test the visibility of the text with the background color.

### Framework 

* [BootStrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
  * The project used BootStrap to help design the website structure, navigation menu, responsive columns, forms 
    and buttons.
* [JQuery](https://jquery.com/) 
  * Used to simplify codes.
* [Jasmine-JQuery](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/markers) 
  * Used for the jasmine framework to recognise JQuery commands.   

### Testing tools

* Used [Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools) through the whole process of building the website, 
    to help me test the responsiveness, as I was building up every page and section, and to fix any issues that occured in this process.
    Used [Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/device-mode/) to also check how the
    website performs on all device sizes.
* Used the [Auto-prefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) to make sure the css has all prefixes it needs, in order to work properly on
    all modern browsers. 
* Used [Responsivedesign](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/#) and [Responsivedesignchecker](https://responsivedesignchecker.com/checker.php)
    to make sure the website is responsive on all devices.
* Used often [Unicorn Revealer Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/unicorn-revealer/lmlkphhdlngaicolpmaakfmhplagoaln?hl=en-GB) 
    to help me locate overflow issues during the process of building the website.
* Used [Lighthouse Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk/related?hl=en) 
    to help me audit the website's performance, accessibility, check for quality improvements and help reduce loading time.
* Used [mobiReady](https://ready.mobi/) to test website performance on different devices.
* Used [W3C CSS validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) to validate CSS. 
* Used [W3C Markup Validation](https://validator.w3.org/) to validate HTML code.
* Used [HTML Formatter](https://htmlformatter.com/) to format the HTML and CSS code.
* Used [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/) to test certain codes in game.js.
* Used [JSHint](https://jshint.com/) to validate the JavaScript code.

------

## Testing

The test procedures and the key issues of the tests are written in the file [TEST.md](https://github.com/anabear/Huzzah/blob/379c2c204cdabe477d40b0100d479ace171701a1/TESTS.md).

### Bugs

Below are a list of issues encountered that do not have a resolution:

* 

---

## Deployment

### How to deploy this project to github pages

Deploy this page to GitHub Pages from [its GitHub repository](https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah/), 
by following these steps:

1. On GitHub, navigate to the site's repository.
2. Under the repository name, click on **Settings**.
3. Scroll down to the **GitHub Pages** section.
4. Under **Source** click the drop-down menu labelled **None** and select **Master Branch**.
5. On selecting **Master Branch** the page is automatically refreshed, the website is now deployed.
6. A green box should appear with the following message `Your site is ready to be published at https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah/.`

For more information on how to deploy a website on GitHub, 
[please visit this website](https://help.github.com/en/github/working-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site).

### How to to clone and run this project locally

To clone this project from GitHub:

1. On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.
2. Under the repository name, click **Clone or download**.
3. In the **Clone with HTTPs** section, copy the clone URL for the repository.
4. Open Terminal.
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
6. Type `git clone`, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3. `git clone https://github.com/anabear/Huzzah.git`
7. Press **Enter**. Your local clone will be created.

For further reading and troubleshooting on cloning a repository from GitHub
[please visit this website](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository).

---

## Credits

### Media

* The photos used in this site were obtained from:
  * [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/search/cocktail/)
  * [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com/images/search/cocktail/)
  * [Freepik](https://www.freepik.com/)
  * [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/cocktail)

### Content

* Logo was designed with the help of the website [Hatchful](https://hatchful.shopify.com/), logo maker.

### Source of codes

* 

### Acknowledgements

* The websites [w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/), [bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/), [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/), 
    [css-tricks](https://css-tricks.com/) and [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) helped me every time i got stuck or wasn't sure 
    what was the best option for what I needed to do. 
* Thank you to my mentor [Precious Ijege](https://www.linkedin.com/in/precious-ijege-908a00168/) for his support and guidance. 

### Disclaimer!
This website is fictional and for educational purposes only. All the content is pure author's imagination. The information 
[**on this website**](https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah/) - is published in good faith and for general information purpose only.

Commit message:

Created contact.html + styled css + built sendEmail.js response alert

README.md, after:

![Image - Logo Huzzah](https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah//assets/images/general/cover_readme.png)

# Huzzah | A memory game with cocktails

Huzzah is a memory game that will allow users to engage with the data, take action that will allow 
the users to move between levels and will provide information that will help the users to achieve 
heir goals. The site will contain 4 pages: Home page, Game page, Contact page and Instructions page.

**A live demo of the website [**can be found here**](https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah/)**.

------

# Table of Contents

* [UX](#UX)
  * [Website Goals](#Website-Goals)
  * [User Stories](#User-Stories)
  * [Design Choices](#Design-Choices)
  * [Wireframes](#Wireframes)
* [Features](#Features)
  * [Existing Features](#Existing-Features)
  * [Future Features](#Future-Features)
* [Technologies Used](#Technologies-Used)
  * [Languages](#Languages)
  * [Styling](#Styling)
  * [Framework](#Framework)
  * [Testing tools](#Testing-tools)
* [Testing](#Testing)
  * [Bugs](#Bugs)
* [Deployment](#Deployment)
* [Credits](#Credits)
  * [Media](#Media)
  * [Content](#Content)
  * [Source of codes](#Source-of-codes)
  * [Acknowledgements](#Acknowledgements)
  * [Disclaimer!](#Disclaimer)

------

## UX

### Website Goals

* Provide clear feedback and next steps to the users, so they find it easy to navigate through the game.
* Provide access to all the information related to the game, and links that are easily noticed. 
* Provide the same experience accessing the website from a browser or mobile.
* Make the website look credible and trustworthy.
* Provide the users with an engaging memory game, that would challenge the users memory and would catch their attention
    to want to spend more time on the website and improve their game timing.
* Provide information about the game rules with instructions on how to play the game. 
* Provide a contact form so individuals can get in contact with the team if they have any requests about the game or want 
    to report any issues.

### User Stories

* As a user, I want to see a game that is stimulating, enjoyable, and challenging.
* As a user, I want to be able to chose if I want the game to have any sounds or not. 
* As a user, I want to see a game that has warm colours, intuitive design. 
* As a user, I want to see a website that is easy to navigate.
* As a user, I want to see clear prompts, reactions, or next steps between levels. 
* As a user, I want to have the same experience accessing the website from a browser or mobile.
* As a user, I want to see instructions that would explain how to play the game.
* As a user, I want to see a contact page, so I can contact the owner if I have any questions, requests, or if I want to report
    an error I might encounter.

### Design Choices

* **Fonts chosen**: Open Sans and Source Sans Pro - as I want the text to be easy to read on all devices, provide a consistent 
    content through the game, and the main focus to be the game and not the fonts. I will also use 'Caesar Dressing' for the navigation
    title, as this font is the one used on the logo. 

* **Colours chosen**: I will use a combination of 4 colours across the website pages: teal, wheat, dark golden, and dark grey. 
    As I chose the theme of the website and game to be beach and cocktails related, I felt that these colours go well with the 
    theme of the website. 

    ![Colours combination](https://screenshot.click/16_02-cgr09-oithf.png)

    When the user selects the correct cards, or they fail to find the matching cards, there will be symbols showing up, 🅇 and ✅ ,
    which will be red and green. The respective cards border will also show these colours.  

    Colours were also chosen based on the [video game console palettes list from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_video_game_console_palettes#NES).

* **Layout chosen**: intuitive, easy to navigate, with a menu available on the main page, a back button on each page, that would 
    bring the user on the main, front page. Buttons and links will have a hover effect, that will allow the user to know an action 
    was taken when the buttons and links are clicked. The logo will also provide a link to the main page, in case the user would like
    to access the main page easily. 


### Wireframes

As part of the development process I created  wireframes for my website using the [Balsamiq tool](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/desktop/#). 
Some of the details that show on the wireframes were changed during the process of building the website because ... reasons. 
* These changes are:
    * eg1
    * eg2

* This is the [**PDF version with all the wireframes**](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/17jDVXZscPY018-Hd0jZA3--5V9EcGl6N?usp=sharing).
* This is the [**.png mobile version of the wireframes**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lv1h_QryJDawWz8sIOwqZzUiDFIAQz7j/view?usp=sharing).
* This is the [**.png desktop version of the wireframes**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xpHnrqGE-_osz59l_Gr4S-JsJgNrLlp9/view?usp=sharing).
* This is the [**.png tablet version of the wireframes**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1D8uzYeD0F7PvLSppVLPF4wvF_8KIMQ90/view?usp=sharing).
* These wireframes are also stored in the [wireframes directory](https://github.com/anabear/Huzzah/blob/379c2c204cdabe477d40b0100d479ace171701a1/wireframes).

------

## Featuress

### Existing Features

* The game will have a responsive design, focused on mobile-first design as users are expected to play the game on any device available.
* User-friendly display with intuitive, easy to navigate design.
* Engaging, timed level game. 5 Levels available with increasing difficulty. 
* **Notifications** - showing the user how they are doing after each level is achieved or lost. Congratulations/Finish Banner.
* **Timer** - that would stimulate and challenge the user to finish the level within specific time.
* **Audio button** - that will allow the user to control the sound of the game.
* **Start game button** - that would allow the user to choose if they want to first read the instructions before starting the game.
* **Back button** - that would allow the user to easily get back to the main page, before the game starts.
* **Instructions page** - that would provide the game rules and any other information that would be useful for the user. 
* **Contact page form** - functional, easy to fill, form validation to ensure accurate information is entered, form submission confirmation
    that will confirm to the user that their submission was successfully sent. The form submissions are delivered to the website owner's 
    inbox with its contents.

### Future Features

* More sounds available, for different levels.
* Create easy/medium/hard difficulty with the introduction of lives (3 to start), reduced time to complete the level, more types of 
    images to match and a greater amount of cards from the start, more than level 10 on the existing features.
* Allow the user to choose their timer, and level.
* Ability to pause the game and save current level. Restart the game from where the user left off. 
* Automated level switch, and change of background between levels.
* Give the user the option to play different themed memory cards games.
* Allow multi-players and provide a leader board.

------

## Technologies Used

### Languages

* [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML)
  * The project used HTML as this is the essential language of websites.
* [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
  * The project used CSS to provide the styles for the website.
* [Javascript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)
  * The project used Javascript to create relevant responses dependent on users actions.

### Styling

* [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
  * Used for the footer social icons.
* [Google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
  * Used for the ‘Source Sans Pro’ and ‘Open Sans’ fonts used within the website.
* [Contrast-ratio](Contrast-ratio.com) 
  * Used to test the visibility of the text with the background color.

### Framework 

* [BootStrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
  * The project used BootStrap to help design the website structure, navigation menu, responsive columns, forms 
    and buttons.
* [JQuery](https://jquery.com/) 
  * Used to simplify codes.
* [Jasmine-JQuery](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/markers) 
  * Used for the jasmine framework to recognise JQuery commands.   

### Testing tools

* Used [Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools) through the whole process of building the website, 
    to help me test the responsiveness, as I was building up every page and section, and to fix any issues that occured in this process.
    Used [Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/device-mode/) to also check how the
    website performs on all device sizes.
* Used the [Auto-prefixer](https://autoprefixer.github.io/) to make sure the css has all prefixes it needs, in order to work properly on
    all modern browsers. 
* Used [Responsivedesign](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/#) and [Responsivedesignchecker](https://responsivedesignchecker.com/checker.php)
    to make sure the website is responsive on all devices.
* Used often [Unicorn Revealer Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/unicorn-revealer/lmlkphhdlngaicolpmaakfmhplagoaln?hl=en-GB) 
    to help me locate overflow issues during the process of building the website.
* Used [Lighthouse Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk/related?hl=en) 
    to help me audit the website's performance, accessibility, check for quality improvements and help reduce loading time.
* Used [mobiReady](https://ready.mobi/) to test website performance on different devices.
* Used [W3C CSS validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) to validate CSS. 
* Used [W3C Markup Validation](https://validator.w3.org/) to validate HTML code.
* Used [HTML Formatter](https://htmlformatter.com/) to format the HTML and CSS code.
* Used [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/) to test certain codes in game.js.
* Used [JSHint](https://jshint.com/) to validate the JavaScript code.

------

## Testing

The test procedures and the key issues of the tests are written in the file [TEST.md](https://github.com/anabear/Huzzah/blob/379c2c204cdabe477d40b0100d479ace171701a1/TESTS.md).

### Bugs

Below are a list of issues encountered that do not have a resolution:

* 

---

## Deployment

### How to deploy this project to github pages

Deploy this page to GitHub Pages from [its GitHub repository](https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah/), 
by following these steps:

1. On GitHub, navigate to the site's repository.
2. Under the repository name, click on **Settings**.
3. Scroll down to the **GitHub Pages** section.
4. Under **Source** click the drop-down menu labelled **None** and select **Master Branch**.
5. On selecting **Master Branch** the page is automatically refreshed, the website is now deployed.
6. A green box should appear with the following message `Your site is ready to be published at https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah/.`

For more information on how to deploy a website on GitHub, 
[please visit this website](https://help.github.com/en/github/working-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site).

### How to to clone and run this project locally

To clone this project from GitHub:

1. On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.
2. Under the repository name, click **Clone or download**.
3. In the **Clone with HTTPs** section, copy the clone URL for the repository.
4. Open Terminal.
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
6. Type `git clone`, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3. `git clone https://github.com/anabear/Huzzah.git`
7. Press **Enter**. Your local clone will be created.

For further reading and troubleshooting on cloning a repository from GitHub
[please visit this website](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository).

---

## Credits

### Media

* The photos used in this site were obtained from:
  * [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/search/cocktail/)
  * [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com/images/search/cocktail/)
  * [Freepik](https://www.freepik.com/)
  * [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/cocktail)

### Content

* Logo was designed with the help of the website [Hatchful](https://hatchful.shopify.com/), logo maker.

### Source of codes

* Contact page form code was inspired from [mdbootstrap](https://mdbootstrap.com/docs/jquery/sections/contact/). Contact form JS alert response 
    and sending the contact form messages to my email address JS code created with the help of 'Sending Emails Using EmailJS' Code institute module 
    and [emailjs.com](https://www.emailjs.com/docs/tutorial/creating-contact-form/).
* 

### Acknowledgements

* The websites [w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/), [bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/), [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/), 
    [css-tricks](https://css-tricks.com/) and [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) helped me every time i got stuck or wasn't sure 
    what was the best option for what I needed to do. 
* Thank you to my mentor [Precious Ijege](https://www.linkedin.com/in/precious-ijege-908a00168/) for his support and guidance. 

### Disclaimer!
This website is fictional and for educational purposes only. All the content is pure author's imagination. The information 
[**on this website**](https://anabear.github.io/Huzzah/) - is published in good faith and for general information purpose only.
